## Shiv Kumar From Clay Tablets to Web
Kumar, S. (2013). [From Clay Tablets to Web](chrome-extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://d1wqtxts1xzle7.cloudfront.net/84782938/2189-libre.pdf?1650797076=&response-content-disposition=inline%3B+filename%3DFrom_Clay_Tablets_to_Web_Journey_of_Libr.pdf&Expires=1676180377&Signature=YzmHOPbpf9QXv6XiDIvqDmDsaiQCqC~xBm5z2HVVome3PTMYKkWM5KE0BfNfauee17VwJmN4CLblyiE1bUo1X-tzchjC8U4UplmmUja-W7nnh-Q1mvYrZlg4oX4nqH9V1EUsHRbJUVgWds9vJ4C~VNPt17kMwphFcK88nbQmr6y4j3yJOOCvEfdmRK-eX9IiFY3bOHi4e192tBBfFOLBrUdoz5gnLWT9Plv2vtm7aDCNIvqnleut~Va2ZWya02r6a1sPlOWocRZnSJ26-tR5-LAjhrOv48UpXAJyb9AXWs-DRwpaFbGzRI79QsXl3hG539PA-e2Hz7M7iNe3pUGyaQ__&Key-Pair-Id=APKAJLOHF5GGSLRBV4ZA): Journey of Library Catalogue. _DESIDOC Journal of Library & Information Technology_, _33_(1). https://doi.org/10.14429/djlit.33.1.3729

### Abstract
The paper discusses the evolution and development of library catalogues from clay tablets to the web-based catalogue. In the early stages, cataloguing was a local and individual library practice. Each library constructed its own catalogue, most suited to its purpose. A series of continuous changes through the ages, in both, conventional and non-conventional catalogues, including recent technology inputs added various features to the present day catalogue. Today the computerised catalogue may function like a portal and this function can be exploited infinitely to connect to a variety of data considered useful for library users. The system designers are trying to adopt new trends in OPACs. Web-based catalogues initiated Web 2.0 trends like RSS feeds, blogs, downloadable e-media, and instant messages. The facelift of the simple catalogue was eminent to keep up with the versatile needs of the widely web exposed library users.

### Reference
Kumar, S. (2013). [From Clay Tablets to Web](chrome-extension://efaidnbmnnnibpcajpcglclefindmkaj/https://d1wqtxts1xzle7.cloudfront.net/84782938/2189-libre.pdf?1650797076=&response-content-disposition=inline%3B+filename%3DFrom_Clay_Tablets_to_Web_Journey_of_Libr.pdf&Expires=1676180377&Signature=YzmHOPbpf9QXv6XiDIvqDmDsaiQCqC~xBm5z2HVVome3PTMYKkWM5KE0BfNfauee17VwJmN4CLblyiE1bUo1X-tzchjC8U4UplmmUja-W7nnh-Q1mvYrZlg4oX4nqH9V1EUsHRbJUVgWds9vJ4C~VNPt17kMwphFcK88nbQmr6y4j3yJOOCvEfdmRK-eX9IiFY3bOHi4e192tBBfFOLBrUdoz5gnLWT9Plv2vtm7aDCNIvqnleut~Va2ZWya02r6a1sPlOWocRZnSJ26-tR5-LAjhrOv48UpXAJyb9AXWs-DRwpaFbGzRI79QsXl3hG539PA-e2Hz7M7iNe3pUGyaQ__&Key-Pair-Id=APKAJLOHF5GGSLRBV4ZA): Journey of Library Catalogue. _DESIDOC Journal of Library & Information Technology_, _33_(1). https://doi.org/10.14429/djlit.33.1.3729

### Summary & Key Take Aways
Kumar's article explores the classification and cataloguing process, covering its development from 4000 BCE to the digital age. He defines cataloguing as the organization and identification of materials for location and categorization as the orderly arrangement of documents. The author reviews the history of information sources, including clay tablets and the Alexandria Library, and explains how the catalogue became an authorized tool for the Church in the 14th century. However, the need for unified catalogues only emerged after World Wars One and Two, and the computerization of the catalogue facilitated the dissemination of knowledge through online access. The article also discusses the Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC). It highlights how information and searches can be manipulated and how documents can interlink to create a network of interconnected information.